The miners strike, what's your memories of watching that on television?
Both my grandads worked in the mines, so always I've been aware of miners and from my grandparents
obviously both my tides were miners. Jolly hard life, very unsociable hours, unsociable working
conditions, so I've always had a strong feeling for miners. I'm not a person that supports strikes
are such, but I do think that when the miners went on strike they had their valid reasons,
whatever that might have been. It was a sad day for our country when it happened because I do
think that their striking caused great upset within the country. But we live in a democratic
country and everybody is entitled to have their say and their way of life and I suppose it was
inevitable that the miners would need better conditions and certainly would need better
money. So I did have sympathy with them. What was your opinion of how the miners were portrayed
on television? Well, I suppose like any other organisation when you get a group of people who
have got a problem and become incensed by it, sometimes their reactions can be perhaps not
exactly what you would admire and they were not always perhaps portrayed in the best light,
but they had a grievance and they had to put it across one way or another and rightly or wrongly
How did you view the strike as a Welsh strike or a British strike? I didn't view it as a Welsh
strike, no. It was a strike of the country as a whole. I didn't feel it was appertaining to
Wales alone, although we've lost all our mines virtually, haven't we? I mean we were renowned
for our coal mining going back way, way back when How Proud Was My Valley was an interesting film,
Paul Robeson and How Green Was My Valley and Proud Valley. So it really wasn't just a Welsh
person's problem. So from my point of view, I think it affected the country as a whole,
Did it have an effect on the community here, do you think? This was a steel village, Brumbo,
big steel mining. Up to a point, yes, I would say so, because when the work people in Brumbo
had their problems, obviously, and it was after the miners' strike that the men in Brumbo went on
strike. I suppose they felt, well, other people are striking, if we have a problem, we will strike.
And for the first time ever, there was a strike in Brumbo in the steelworks, which was practically
unheard of before. So yes, I would say that the miners' strike probably was in their mines,
and they saw how that was dealt with, and they decided that they would strike. Though whether
it's good to strike, that's debatable, isn't it?